Business Intelligence Solutions Adoption Model for Peruvians SMEs 
based on UTAUT2 
Luis Javier Ortiz Leigh1 a, Axel Gutierrez Huaman1 b and Jymmy Stuwart Dextre Alarcon1 c 
1School of Systems and Computer Engineering, Peruvian University of Applied Sciences, 2390 Primavera Avenue, Lima, 
Peru 
U202010390@upc.edu.pe, U202010337@upc.edu.pe, PCISJDEX@upc.edu.pe  
Keywords: Adoption, Business Intelligence, SMEs, UTAUT2, Intention to Use. 
Abstract: Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) face significant challenges to grow and make strategic decisions 
due to their small size and limited resources. This study proposes a model to identify the factors that influence 
the adoption of Business Intelligen ce (BI) solutions in Peruvian SMEs, based on the Unified Theory of 
Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT2). The study methodology is divided into four phases. The first 
phase consists of analyzing existing technology adoption models to identify critical components that affect 
BI adoption. In the second phase, the proposed model is developed and survey questions are designed that 
will measure relevant factors for statistical validation. The third phase involves data collection through 
surveys targeting SME s in Peru, followed by analysis to identify significant patterns. The fourth and final 
phase validates the model using the Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM) technique, 
evaluating the robustness and accuracy of the proposed model. The validation results show that the proposed 
factors Performance Expectation (PE), Price/Value Ratio (PV) and Competitive Pressure (CP) are the most 
influential in the intention to use BI solutions by Peruvian SMEs. 
1 INTRODUCTION 
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) face 
a significant problem with respect to their 
subsistence: only 30 \% of them manage to survive 
after 2 years and the main reason is liquidity (Rubio, 
2020). The causes vary from operating policies, 
which do not guarantee survival in the market, often 
leading companies to bankruptcy (Roever, 2016), 
internal factors (business understanding, resources, 
budget, solvency level, liquidity, etc.) and external 
factors (political, social, environmental, etc.) 
(Vukšić, Bach & Popovič, 2013), trust in one's own 
experience when making decisions, ruling out the 
possibility of opting to improve this process through 
the incursion of technology (Bhatiasevi & Naglis, 
2020) and underestimation of technology, limiting its 
use to adm inistrative tasks instead of using it for 
complex business operations (Caseiro & Coelho, 
2018).  
 
a  https://orcid.org/0009-0009-5334-4257 
b  https://orcid.org/0009-0009-4740-9253 
c  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1686-0510 
In their study on the intention to use Business 
Intelligence in SMEs in Libya using UTAUT2 and 
TAM, Alsibhawi, Yahaya & Mohamed (2023) 
reveals that the effective adoption of this technology 
depends on factors such as business resources and 
capabilities. In  another study, Kašparová (2023) 
shows a technology model based on UTAUT2 for BI 
adoption by adding the habit factor within the 
constructs of the presented model, which was found 
to be the most influential according to the results. On 
the other hand, Zheng  & Khalid (2022) conducted a 
research on ERP and BI adoption in SMEs in 
Malaysia using UTAUT and TOE, highlighting that 
ERPBI plays an important role in organizational 
performance and business continuity, so it is 
necessary to adopt it among SMEs. In addit ion, 
Kwarteng, Ntsiful, Diego & Novák (2023) show a 
technology model for digitalization adoption in SMEs 
in Czech Republic and Slovakia, which highlights the 
competitive pressure factor being the most significant 
predictor of BI adoption intention in Czech  and 

Slovak SMEs. Fang, Azmi, Yahya, Sarkan, Sjarif \& 
Chuprat (2018) shows their study of mobile BI 
adoption based on UTAUT, with adaptation of 
TAMMS. The result of the study was that it is 
important for users the ease of use and whether it is 
useful to have the information at the reach of a mobile 
device.  However, all these authors have developed 
studies on the adoption of BI solutions in different 
countries in Asia and Europe, having that in Peru has 
not developed a study that evaluates the intention to 
use this same technology, so this paper is to show the 
proposed model that illustrates the main potential 
factors to be influential for the adoption of BI 
solutions, based on the UTAUT2 model  (Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 2012) . This study will focus on 
understanding the factors that influence the intention 
and acceptance of Peruvian SMEs towards the 
implementation of BI solutions, therefore we will 
perform (1) Tool selection, (2) Model design, (3) 
Data collection and analysis and (4) Validation. 
The organization of the article is as follows: in 
Section 2, we will talk about the work related to the 
proposed solution; in Section 3, about the proposed 
model, highlighting all the phases of its development; 
in Section 4, about the validation of the proposed 
model; in Section 5, about the results of the study and 
finally Section 6, with the conclusions of the study, as 
well as the possible future work. 
2 RELATED WORKS 
The field of Business Intelligence (BI) adoption 
has gained relevance in response to the growing 
demand for data for business decision making. In this 
context, previous research is highlighted and will be 
presented as related work in this study. These works, 
conducted in different countries, share similar models 
while incorporating their own constructs, thus 
offering a global and contextualized view of the 
challenges and strategies in the implementation of BI 
and other technologies at the international level. 
Rouhani, Ashrafi, Ravasan & Afshari (2018) 
conducted an empirical research on the factors 
influencing BI adoption in the banking and finance 
industry. This research is particularly relevant 
because of the few previous attempts to identify the 
factors affec ting the adoption of BI systems. Given 
the rapid proliferation of data in organizations and the 
critical importance of managerial decision making, it 
is critical to determine the most appropriate factors 
for BI adoption, as this significantly influences th e 
decision to implement BI. In addition, a conceptual 
model based on the TOE framework was proposed 
and validated using survey data and the PLS 
technique. The research concluded that the most 
influential factors in IT implementation stages are 
grouped into five categories: individual, 
organizational, technological, task -related, and 
environmental characteristics. 
Zheng & Khalid (2022) goes into the adoption of 
ERP-BI systems, which should consider 
technological, organizational, and environmental 
(TOE) factors to ensure its continuity and 
sustainability. Since the study aims to close the 
current gaps in ERP -BI adopt ion through a TOE -
focused perspective and presents a conceptual 
framework that describes the dimensions of this 
theory and its factors. Thus, the article contributes to 
the understanding of how companies can successfully 
adopt ERP-BI systems in a constantl y changing and 
competitive business environment, since according to 
several authors it has been shown that the integration 
of ERP and BI systems enhances business decision 
making capabilities. What refers to our study, what is 
different is that it is only based on measuring the 
intention to use BI solutions, using UTAUT2. 
Bany Mohammad, Al -Okaily, Al -Majali & 
Masa’deh (2022) examined the relationship between 
business intelligence capabilities and the 
performance of SMEs in Jordan, under the TOE 
framework, taking into account the moderating role 
of competitive intelligence. The results showed that 
BI capabilities have a significant influence on 
business performance and that competitive 
intelligence positively enhances this relationship. 
This indicates that SMEs should focus on developing 
their BI capabilities to improve their competitiveness 
in the marketplace. However, although this study 
focused on measuring BI usage intention in Jordanian 
SMEs, the study we propose is based on the UTAUT2 
model, which includes more specific constructs 
related to software usage and acceptance. 
Ahmad, Miskon, Alabdan, & Tlili (2021) a BI 
system adoption model based on the TOE framework 
was investigated in the textile industry, extending the 
original model with an additional dimension 
(Individual) in addition to the three traditional 
dimensions (t echnological, organizational, and 
environmental). Preliminary findings from the 
interviews were used to validate the suitability of the 
proposed model. The research model was then 
validated through a questionnaire survey and 
DEMATEL techniques. Analysis of  the results 
indicated that user traits, technological maturity, 
sustainability, leadership commitment and support, 
and compatibility were the most significant factors. 
The determinants of the causal group were shown to 
have greater influence throughout the model 
compared to those of the effect group, such as 
interpersonal communications and satisfaction with 
existing systems. In relation to our study, we 
highlight the use of the TOE framework to measure 
BI usage intention in the textile industry, highlighting 
the flexibility of the model to be applied in different 
industries.  
Hmoud, Al-Adwan, Horani, Yaseen & Al Zoubi 
(2023) made a study based on the Technology -
Organization-Environment model, which provides a 
comprehensive framework for understanding 
technology adoption processes. By applying the TOE 
model specifically to the c ontext of BI adoption in 
Educational Institutions, this study extends the 
theoretical understanding by incorporating 
organizational and environmental factors unique to 
Jordanian HEIs. One of the main contributions of this 
study is its focus on BI adoption by Educational 
Institutions in Jordan, filling an important gap in the 
literature by identifying and analyzing the factors that 
influence this adoption. The findings show that 
organizational characteristics, such as top 
management support, information cult ure, 
complexity, and vendor selection, have a positive 
impact on BI adoption in these institutions. This study 
is significant in that it uses the context of Jordanian 
educational institutions to demonstrate that it is 
possible to measure the intention to u se any 
technology. We use the UTAUT2 model, which is 
more oriented to measure acceptance with constructs 
specific to software use. 
3 PROPOSED MODEL 
The following are the parts of this study: first, the 
selection of tools was carried out, then the proposed 
model was designed, followed by data collection and 
analysis, and finally, the validation of the results. 
 
 
Figure 1: Proposed Metholodogy. 
 
3.1 Phase 1: Tool Selection 
The goal of this phase is to be able to adequately 
determine the tools that best fit the proposal proposed 
in this study to be used and applied. To this end, we 
first conducted a systematic review of the literature 
and then benchmarked the models used in the articles 
reviewed. Regarding the review, this allowed us to 
define the criteria to be taken into account for the 
evaluation and comparison of the selected models: 
▪ Focus: This aspect refers to the main focus or 
central issue addressed by each model.  
▪ Key factors: These are the main factors or 
constructs that each model considers as 
determinants of technology adoption. 
▪ Main Application: Indicates in which areas or 
contexts each technology adoption model is 
commonly applied. 
▪ Integration of Social Factors: This aspect refers 
to the consideration of social factors and social 
influences on technology adoption within each 
model. 
 
Once the articles were compiled, a benchmarking 
of the models used in the studies was carried out, 
highlighting the model approach, the key factors 
used, the main application of the model used and 
finally the integration of social factors, which is 
shown in the following table: 
 
Table 1: Comparative table of adoption models 
according to comparison criteria 
 
Phase 1: Tool 
Selection
• Benchmarking of 
existing models
Phase 2: 
Model design
• Model construction, survey 
design for validation and 
definition of statistical 
metrics for outcome 
evaluation.
Phase 3: Data 
collection and 
analysis
• Application of the 
validation survey of 
the proposed model 
factors.
Phase 4: 
Model 
validation
• Modeling of the data 
collected for the 
validation of the 
proposed model.

From the benchmarking, the UTAUT2 model was 
chosen, as it provides more value and its approach fits 
our study. Also, Quicano (2019) demonstrates that the 
UTAUT2 model provides superior explanatory 
power compared to other technology acceptance 
models. By incorporating additional factors such as 
hedonic motivation, price value, and habit, UTAUT2 
more accurately captures the complexities of user 
acceptance and usage behavior, outperforming its 
predecessors in predictive capability.  In addition, an 
additional construct from a peer -reviewed arti cle is 
incorporated, which contributes significantly to the 
result of this article. 
3.2 Model Design 
The objective of this phase is to design the proposed 
model based on the selected tools. To this end, the 
model was first built, the survey design was defined 
and the metrics for the validity of the model were 
defined. First, the constructs of the model we re 
analyzed, as well as the external construct identified 
during phase 1. From this, the proposed model was 
designed, which contemplates some constructs of the 
UTAUT2 model, adding the identified external 
construct. 
 
Figure 2: Proposed Model. 
 
The proposed model has the following factors: 
• Performance Expectancy: Performance 
expectancy refers to the individual’s 
perception of whether using a particular 
technology will  improve his or her job or 
personal performance. 
• Effort Expectancy: Effort expectancy refers 
to the  individual’s perception of the 
perceived ease or  difficulty of using a 
particular technology. 
• Social Influence: Social influence refers to 
the individual’s perception of the perceived 
social pressure to use a particular 
technology. 
• Facilitating Conditions: Facilitating 
conditions refer to additional resources that 
can help make the adoption of a technology 
easier and more successful. 
• Hedonic Motivation: Hedonic motivation 
refers to  the degree to which a person 
perceives that using a particular technology 
will provide pleasure, fun, or entertainment. 
• Price/Value Ratio: Price/value ratio refers to 
an individual’s perception of whether the 
cost of acquiring and using a technology is 
justified by the  benefits and value it 
provides. 
• Habit: Habit refers to the degree to which an 
individual has a habit or routine of using a 
particular technology. 
• Competitive pressure: refers to the forces 
and challenges organizations face to remain 
competitive in a dynamic and changing 
environment. 
For the validation of the model, a questionnaire with 
questions that are directly related to each construct 
will be carried out. Below is the table with the 
questions for each construct: 
Table 2: Questionnaire for the validation of the 
model. 
Construct ID Question 
Performance 
Expectancy 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
ED1 Digitization would be useful 
in my work. 
ED2 Using digitized processes 
allows me and the company 
to perform tasks efficiently 
and quickly. 
ED3 The use of digitized 
processes and services 
increases productivity 
ED5 Digitalization impacts 
profits and performance in 
the company 
ED6 My good digital skills 
increase my chances of 
getting a raise 

Effort 
Expectancy 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
EE1 My interaction with the 
digitized work environment 
would be clear and 
understandable 
EE2 It would be easy for me to 
acquire digital skills to work 
in the digitized work 
environment 
EE3 You would find a digitized 
work environment easy to 
use 
EE4 Learning how to operate 
processes in a digitized way 
is easy for me 
Facilitating 
conditions 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
CF1 The company has the 
resources to use more 
digitized processes and 
services. 
CF2 The company has the 
necessary knowledge to use 
more digitized processes and 
services 
CF3 Modern digitalization 
techniques are not 
compatible with other 
digitized processes and 
services in the company 
CF4 A specific person (or group) 
is available to help if 
difficulties arise with 
digitalization in the 
company. 
Social 
Influence 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
IS1 The people who are 
important to me think that I 
should use digitization tools 
in my work. 
IS2 My work environment 
(colleagues, bosses, etc.) 
thinks I should use 
digitization tools. 
Motivation 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
ME1 Using digitizing tools is fun 
ME2 Using digitization tools is 
nice 
Price/Value 
Ratio 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
PV1 Digitization tools are good 
value for money. 
SS2 Digitization tools offer good 
value for money. 
Habit 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
HA1 Using digitization tools has 
become a habit for me. 
HA2 I feel like I'm in the habit of 
using digitizing tools. 
Competitive 
pressure 
(Kwarteng et. 
al., 2023) 
CP1 My company plans to invest 
more in digitalization in the 
future. 
CP2 Business partners who are 
important to the company 
think that the company 
should be more digitized. 
Behavorial 
intentention 
(Venkatesh, 
Thong, & Xu, 
2012) 
IU1 My company intends to 
digitize its business 
processes to a greater extent. 
IU2 My company predicts that it 
will introduce more 
digitalization in the near 
future. 
IU3 My company plans to invest 
in more digitalization in the 
future. 
 
This survey includes questions related to each 
construct, so that respondents can give their opinion 
and find out which one has the greatest influence on 
their ability to adopt BI solutions. The answers are 
based on a Likert scale, so as not to limit them to only 
“yes” or “no”. This will be developed in a Microsoft 
Forms questionnaire, since it will be via mail that the 
selected SMEs will be able to complete the survey. 
As for the validation metrics, we have Cronbach's 
alpha, which is the degree of reliability that reflects a 
given content domain of what is measured (George & 
Mallery, 1995 ). This value must pass 0.7 to have 
acceptable reliability. For hypothesis testing, we have 
the following metrics: Convergent Validity, which 
must be greater than 0.70 to be acceptable; 
Discriminant Validity (X2) which must be less than 
0.05 and Average Var iance Extracted (AVE) which 
must be greater than or equal to 0.50 [18]. For the fit  
of the measurement model, we have the normalized 
Chi-square (CMIN/DF) which should be 1<X2/df<5; 
Goodness of fit (GFI) which should be greater than 
0.9; Comparative Fit (CFI) greater than 0.9 and Root 
mean square error of approximation (RMSEA) < 0.08 
(Gutarra, 2012). 
3.3 Data collection and analysis 
For this phase, the goal is to define the sample to 
which the survey of phase 2 will be applied, and then, 
once applied, to collect the data and analyze them 
before the validation of the proposed model. 
For the selection of companies for the sample, the 
government's open databases will be searched in 
order to collect the largest number of candidate 
companies, and by means of a simple sampling, the 
sample to be taken to apply the survey will be defined. 
These companies will be validated with respect to 
their business segment, since they must belong to the 
SME segment. Then, once the survey has been 
applied to the selected sample, the data from the 
responses will be collected and cleaned, in order to 
have a clean data set ready to be processed.  
Finally, a descriptive analysis of the results of the 
survey will be made, with the objective of rescuing 
insights from the SMEs, to be taken into account 
when drawing conclusions regarding the model 
calibrated after the modeling. 
3.4 Phase 4: Model validation 
The objective of this phase is to validate the proposed 
model based on the surveys applied to the selected 
companies. For this purpose, the variables will be 
modeled using the PLS -SEM method (Structural 
Equation Modeling).  
The use of the PLS-SEM method is based on its 
ability to handle complex models, even with small 
samples and data that do not meet normality 
assumptions. It is less restrictive than other 
techniques, such as Covariance -Based Structural 
Equation Modeling (CB -SEM), and is particularly 
useful for exploratory and predictive research. Hair et 
al. (2019) mentions that PLS-SEM is a flexible and 
powerful tool that allows for the simultaneous 
evaluation of multiple relationships between latent 
variables in contexts where ot her techniques might 
fail. 
Once all the survey results are available, structural 
equation modeling is performed to analyze the 
relationships of the variables (the constructs) and to 
see which are the most influential factors for the 
intention to use. PLS -SEM is a statistical techniq ue 
used to analyze the relationships between latent 
(unobservable) variables in a model.  
With this, we would finally have the model 
adjusted to the context of Peruvian SMEs, showing 
the survey questions with their respective weights, 
which will reveal the construct that most influences 
SMEs in their intention to adopt BI solutions. In 
addition, it can be discussed whether the UTAUT2 
model is the most efficient to use in the context of 
Peruvian SMEs or not, being able to recommend 
other constructs to enrich such theory and thus 
improve the literature of this type of study. 
4 V ALIDATION 
For the validation of the proposed model, the 
following phases were carried out: (1) survey design, 
(2) selection of participating companies, (3) sending 
the survey, (4) data collection and analysis, and (5) 
evaluation of the model. 
For the survey design, questions related to each 
construct of the model were asked using a Likert scale 
(from 1 to 5) (see table 2). For the selection of 
participating companies, a total of 130 companies in 
the SME sector from all regions of Peru were 
selected. On the other hand, to send the survey, it is 
in a Windows Forms form, which is sent by e-mail to 
the selected companies. Once all the responses are 
received, they are collected and loaded into the IBM 
SPSS Statistics software, in order to group them so 
that they can be loaded into the SmartPLS modeling 
software.  
Finally, once the information has been uploaded 
to the modeling software, hypothesis testing is 
performed with the constructs of the model. The 
model will be validated with statistical metrics. 
All 130 SMEs responded to the survey. It was sent 
to the managers of each company to get an overview 
of their views on the adoption of BI in their 
businesses. The survey was available for one week 
after the emails were sent. After the survey deadline, 
the data was collected, initially exported to an Excel 
format, then loaded into SPSS to be formatted 
properly before being uploaded without issues to 
SmartPLS. Since all the questions were mandatory, 
there were no unanswered questions. 
5 RESULTS 
After processing the survey data and adjusting the 
model to acceptable thresholds for the metrics, we 
have that the final observable variables of the model 
(which would be the valid hypotheses of the influence 
of intention to use BI solutions) are: Perform ance 
Expectation (PE), Price /Value Ratio (PV) and 
Competitive Pressure (CP). 
Table 3: Hypothesis test results. 
 
Hypothesis Estimate S.E C.R. P-
Value 
Results 
H1 (PE-> BI) 0,343 0.083 3.996 0.001 Pass 
H6 (PV->BI) 0,462 0.088 4.126 0.001 Pass 
H8 (PC->BI) 1,045 0.079 12.874 0.001 Pass 
 
The factors pass based on their strong and statistically 
significant metrics. For each hypothesis, the high 
Critical Ratios (C.R.) and low P -Values (all below 
0.05) indicate robust relationships between the 
variables. The path coefficients (Estimates) show  
positive and substantial effects, with perceived cost 
(PC) having the strongest influence, as reflected by its 
high estimate (1.045). These metrics confirm that 
performance expectancy (PE), price/value ratio (PV), 
and competitive pressure  (CP) significant ly affect 
behavioral intention (BI), validating the hypotheses 
and demonstrating that the relationships are not due 
to chance. 
Table 4: Model fit indices. 
 
Model fit indices                Final SEM 
Índex Threshold Index Fulfillment 
Normalized 
Chi-square >1 y <5 2,96 Pass 
 GFI >0,9 0,92 Pass 
 CFI >0,9 0,96 Pass 
RMSEA <0,08 0,078 Pass 
 
Such variables have factor loadings greater than 0.7 
(acceptable level), as well as their variances are 
greater than 0.5. With this, it can be concluded that 
the model already has a conforming and validated 
structure. 
6 CONCLUSIONS 
The present study allowed us to explore the factors 
influencing the intention to use Business Intelligence 
(BI) solutions in small and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs) in Peru, based on a survey. Information was 
collected from 130 SMEs across Peru to valida te the 
UTAUT2 model. 
Through detailed analysis, three main constructs 
were identified that exert significant influence on this 
intention: Performance Expectancy (PE), Price/Value 
Ratio (PV), and Competitive Pressure (CP). Thus, it 
is found that in the UTAUT2 model, only PE and PV 
are valid in the analyzed context, as well as CP. 
However, while Performance Expectancy  is 
recognized as a critical factor for SMEs across 
various countries, including the Czech Republic 
(Kašparová, 2023), additional factors such as PV and 
CP may gain prominence depending on the specific 
market in which these SMEs operate. This suggests 
that while PE remains universally important, the 
impact of other constructs can vary significantly 
based on the unique characteristics of different 
geographical and cultural contexts.  
Together, these findings provided valuable 
insights for both SMEs considering the adoption of 
BI solutions and for the providers of these 
technologies. For SMEs, it is crucial to assess how BI 
solutions can integrate and enhance their operations 
effectively. For providers, understanding these 
motivations can help develop more effective 
marketing and sales strategies, aligning their 
offerings with the specific needs and concerns of 
SMEs.  
Future studies could further explore how other 
factors, such as staff training and technical support, 
influence the adoption of BI solutions or other 
essential solutions for the optimization and growth of 
SMEs. Specifically, it would be valuable to conduct  
an analysis focused on the retail sector, given its 
dynamism and high competitiveness, to better 
understand how SMEs in this industry perceive and 
utilize BI technologies. 
It is important to note that the findings of this 
study are based on the context of Peruvian SMEs. 
Due to differences in economic, social, and 
technological contexts between countries, the results 
may not be generalizable to SMEs in other regions. 
The specific conditions of each market can influence 
the identified technology acceptance factors. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
We would like to express our most sincere gratitude 
to the School of Systems and Computer Engineering 
of the Peruvian University of Applied Sciences for 
providing us with the necessary tools and 
environment for the development of this research. To 
our advisors, for their invaluable guidance, patience 
and support throughout this project. Finally, to the 
other individuals who were involved in the 
development of the proj ect, for their constant 
encouragement, understanding and unconditional 
support, without who m this achievement would not 
have been possible. 
REFERENCES 
Rubio, P. (2020, July 6). In Latin America, only 45% of 
SMEs survive the first two years. Diario La República. 
Retrieved from https://bit.ly/3yRniCc  
Roever, S. (2016). Street vendors and legal reform in india, 
south africa, and peru informal trade meets informal 
governance. Cityscape, 18, 27-46. 
Vukšić, V. B., Bach, M. P., & Popovič , A. (2013). 
Supporting performance management with business 
process management and business intelligence: A case 
analysis of integration and orchestration. International 
Journal of Information Management, 33(4), 613–619. 
Bhatiasevi, V., & Naglis, M. (2020). Elucidating the 
determinants of business intelligence adoption and 
organizational performance. Information development, 
36(1), 78-9. 
Caseiro, N., & Coelho, A. (2018). Business intelligence and 
competitiveness: the mediating role of entrepreneurial 
orientation. Competitiveness Review: An International 
Business Journal, 28(2), 213-226. 
Alsibhawi, I. A. A., Yahaya, J. B., & Mohamed, H. B. 
(2023). Business Intelligence Adoption for Small and 
Medium Enterprises: Conceptual Framework. Applied 
Sciences, 13(7), 4121. 
Kašparová, P. (2023). Intention to use business intelligence 
tools in decision making processes: applying a UTAUT 
2 model. Central European Journal of Operations 
Research, 31(3), 991-1008. 
Zheng, J., & Khalid, H. (2022). The Adoption of Enterprise 
Resource Planning and Business Intelligence Systems 
in Small and Medium Enterprises: A Conceptual 
Framework. Mathematical Problems in Engineering , 
2022. 
Kwarteng, M. A., Ntsiful, A., Diego, L. F. P., & Novák, P. 
(2023). Extending UTAUT with competitive pressure 
for SMEs digitalization adoption in two European 
nations: a multi -group analysis. Aslib Journal of 
Information Management. 
Fang, L. Y., Azmi, N. F. M., Yahya, Y., Sarkan, H., Sjarif, 
N. N. A., & Chuprat, S. (2018). Mobile business 
intelligence acceptance model for organisational 
decision making. Bulletin of Electrical Engineering and 
Informatics, 7(4), 650-656. 
Rouhani, S., Ashrafi, A., Ravasan, A. Z., & Afshari, S. 
(2018). Business intelligence systems adoption model: 
an empirical investigation. Journal of Organizational 
and End User Computing (JOEUC), 30(2), 43-70. 
Zheng, J., & Khalid, H. (2022). The adoption of enterprise 
resource planning and business intelligence systems in 
small and medium enterprises: a conceptual framework. 
Mathematical Problems in Engineering, 2022. 
Bany Mohammad, A., Al -Okaily, M., Al -Majali, M., & 
Masa’deh, R. E. (2022). Business intelligence and 
analytics (BIA) usage in the banking industry sector: an 
application of the TOE framework. Journal of Open 
Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity, 8(4), 
189. 
Ahmad, S., Miskon, S., Alabdan, R., & Tlili, I. (2021). 
Statistical assessment of business intelligence system 
adoption model for sustainable textile and apparel 
industry. IEEE Access, 9, 106560-106574. 
Hmoud, H., Al-Adwan, A. S., Horani, O., Yaseen, H., & Al 
Zoubi, J. Z. (2023). Factors influencing business 
intelligence adoption by higher education institutions. 
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology,  Market, and 
Complexity, 9(3), 100111. 
Venkatesh, V., Thong, J., & Xu, X. (2012). Consumer 
acceptance and Use of information technology: 
extending the unified theory of acceptance and Use of 
technology. MIS Quarterly. 
Hair, J. F., Hult, G. T. M., Ringle, C. M., & Sarstedt, M. 
(2019). A primer on Partial Least Squares Structural 
Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM). Sage publications. 
George, D., & Mallery, P. (1995). SPSS/PC+ step by step: 
A simple guide and reference. USA: Wadsworth 
Publishing Company. 
Gutarra Castañeda, M. (2012). Análisis de la aceptación de 
la normativa de tecnologías en las instituciones públicas 
del Estado peruano. 
Quicaño, C. (2019). UTAUT2 adaptado para medir la 
intención del comportamiento en la aceptación 
tecnológica del servicio de internet de alta velocidad en 
cadenas hoteleras peruanas caso de estudio: Casa 
Andina. 